.\" Man page for sw-agent-init
.\" Copyright (c) 2025 SignalWire
.\" Licensed under the MIT License
.TH SW-AGENT-INIT 1 "November 2025" "SignalWire Agents SDK 1.0.8" "SignalWire Commands"
.SH NAME
sw-agent-init \- create a new SignalWire AI agent project
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sw-agent-init
.RI [ options ]
.br
.B sw-agent-init
.I project_name
.RI [ options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B sw-agent-init
is an interactive command-line tool for creating new SignalWire AI agent
projects. It supports both local agent projects (FastAPI/uvicorn) and
cloud function deployments (AWS Lambda, Google Cloud Functions, Azure Functions).
.PP
When run without arguments, the tool enters interactive mode and prompts
for project configuration including platform selection. When given a project
name, it runs in quick mode with sensible defaults (local platform by default).
.PP
For local projects, the generated project includes:
.IP \(bu 2
Agent module with sample SWAIG function
.IP \(bu 2
Main application entry point
.IP \(bu 2
Environment configuration (.env)
.IP \(bu 2
Test scaffolding with pytest
.IP \(bu 2
Optional web UI for browser-based testing
.IP \(bu 2
Debug webhook handlers
.IP \(bu 2
README documentation
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I project_name
Name of the project to create. If not provided, the tool enters
interactive mode and prompts for a name.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Display help message and exit.
.TP
.BI \-p ", " \-\-platform " PLATFORM"
Target deployment platform. Valid values:
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
.B local
\- Local agent with FastAPI/uvicorn server (default)
.IP \(bu 2
.B aws
\- AWS Lambda function with API Gateway
.IP \(bu 2
.B gcp
\- Google Cloud Function (Gen 2)
.IP \(bu 2
.B azure
\- Azure Function
.RE
.TP
.BI \-r ", " \-\-region " REGION"
Cloud region for deployment (only for cloud platforms). Default regions:
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
AWS: us-east-1
.IP \(bu 2
GCP: us-central1
.IP \(bu 2
Azure: eastus
.RE
.TP
.BI \-\-type " TYPE"
Agent type to create (only for local platform). Valid values:
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
.B basic
\- Minimal agent with example tool (default)
.IP \(bu 2
.B full
\- Complete setup with debug webhooks, web UI, and all features
.RE
.TP
.B \-\-no\-venv
Skip virtual environment creation (only for local platform). By default,
a Python virtual environment is created in the project directory.
.TP
.BI \-\-dir " DIRECTORY"
Parent directory for the project. The project will be created as
a subdirectory. Default is the current directory.
.SH INTERACTIVE MODE
When run without a project name, the tool prompts for:
.SS Project Configuration
.IP \(bu 2
.B Target platform
\- Local, AWS Lambda, GCP, or Azure
.IP \(bu 2
.B Project name
\- Name of the project directory
.IP \(bu 2
.B Project directory
\- Where to create the project
.IP \(bu 2
.B Region
\- Cloud region (for cloud platforms only)
.IP \(bu 2
.B Agent type
\- Basic or full setup (for local platform only)
.SS Feature Selection
The following features can be enabled or disabled:
.IP \(bu 2
.B Debug webhooks
\- Console output for real-time call data
.IP \(bu 2
.B Post-prompt summary
\- Call summary handling
.IP \(bu 2
.B Web UI
\- Browser-based agent testing interface
.IP \(bu 2
.B Example SWAIG tool
\- Sample get_info function
.IP \(bu 2
.B Test scaffolding
\- pytest-based tests
.IP \(bu 2
.B Basic authentication
\- Secure webhook endpoints
.SS Credentials
The tool checks for existing SignalWire credentials in environment
variables:
.IP \(bu 2
.B SIGNALWIRE_SPACE_NAME
.IP \(bu 2
.B SIGNALWIRE_PROJECT_ID
.IP \(bu 2
.B SIGNALWIRE_API_TOKEN
.PP
If found, they are offered as defaults. Otherwise, you can enter them
manually or skip and configure later.
.SH PROJECT STRUCTURE
A generated project has the following structure:
.PP
.RS
.nf
project_name/
\(lm\(em\(em agents/
\(bv   \(lm\(em\(em __init__.py
\(bv   \(gra\(em\(em main_agent.py      # Agent implementation
\(lm\(em\(em skills/
\(bv   \(gra\(em\(em __init__.py        # Custom skills
\(lm\(em\(em tests/
\(bv   \(lm\(em\(em __init__.py
\(bv   \(gra\(em\(em test_agent.py      # Unit tests
\(lm\(em\(em web/
\(bv   \(gra\(em\(em index.html         # Web UI (if enabled)
\(lm\(em\(em .env                    # Environment config
\(lm\(em\(em .env.example            # Example config
\(lm\(em\(em .gitignore
\(lm\(em\(em .venv/                  # Virtual environment
\(lm\(em\(em app.py                  # Entry point
\(lm\(em\(em README.md
\(gra\(em\(em requirements.txt
.fi
.RE
.SH GENERATED FILES
.SS agents/main_agent.py
The main agent class with:
.IP \(bu 2
Voice and language configuration
.IP \(bu 2
Prompt sections (role, guidelines)
.IP \(bu 2
Example SWAIG tool using the @tool decorator
.IP \(bu 2
Debug webhook configuration (if enabled)
.IP \(bu 2
Basic authentication support (if enabled)
.SS app.py
Application entry point that:
.IP \(bu 2
Loads environment variables from .env
.IP \(bu 2
Creates and configures the AgentServer
.IP \(bu 2
Registers webhook endpoints
.IP \(bu 2
Serves static files from web/ directory
.IP \(bu 2
Pretty-prints debug data to console
.SS .env
Environment configuration with:
.IP \(bu 2
SignalWire credentials
.IP \(bu 2
Server host and port
.IP \(bu 2
Basic auth credentials (auto-generated secure password)
.IP \(bu 2
Debug level settings
.IP \(bu 2
Public URL configuration
.SS tests/test_agent.py
Test suite that verifies:
.IP \(bu 2
Agent loads without errors
.IP \(bu 2
SWML structure is valid
.IP \(bu 2
SWAIG functions are defined correctly
.IP \(bu 2
Functions execute and return expected results
.SH EXAMPLES
.SS Interactive Mode
Run without arguments for guided setup:
.PP
.RS
.nf
sw-agent-init
.fi
.RE
.SS Quick Mode - Local
Create a basic local agent project:
.PP
.RS
.nf
sw-agent-init myagent
.fi
.RE
.PP
Create a full-featured local project:
.PP
.RS
.nf
sw-agent-init myagent --type full
.fi
.RE
.PP
Create without virtual environment:
.PP
.RS
.nf
sw-agent-init myagent --no-venv
.fi
.RE
.PP
Create in a specific directory:
.PP
.RS
.nf
sw-agent-init myagent --dir /opt/projects
.fi
.RE
.SS Quick Mode - Cloud Functions
Create an AWS Lambda project:
.PP
.RS
.nf
sw-agent-init myagent -p aws
.fi
.RE
.PP
Create an AWS Lambda project in a specific region:
.PP
.RS
.nf
sw-agent-init myagent -p aws -r us-west-2
.fi
.RE
.PP
Create a Google Cloud Function project:
.PP
.RS
.nf
sw-agent-init myagent -p gcp
.fi
.RE
.PP
Create an Azure Function project:
.PP
.RS
.nf
sw-agent-init myagent -p azure
.fi
.RE
.SS After Creation - Local
Start the agent:
.PP
.RS
.nf
cd myagent
source .venv/bin/activate
python app.py
.fi
.RE
.PP
Run tests:
.PP
.RS
.nf
cd myagent
source .venv/bin/activate
pytest tests/ -v
.fi
.RE
.PP
Test with swaig-test:
.PP
.RS
.nf
swaig-test agents/main_agent.py --list-tools
swaig-test agents/main_agent.py --exec get_info --topic "test"
swaig-test agents/main_agent.py --dump-swml
.fi
.RE
.SS After Creation - Cloud Functions
Deploy to AWS Lambda:
.PP
.RS
.nf
cd myagent
./deploy.sh
.fi
.RE
.PP
Deploy to Google Cloud:
.PP
.RS
.nf
cd myagent
./deploy.sh
.fi
.RE
.PP
Deploy to Azure:
.PP
.RS
.nf
cd myagent
./deploy.sh
.fi
.RE
.SH AGENT TYPES
.SS Basic Agent
The basic agent type includes:
.IP \(bu 2
Minimal agent with single example tool
.IP \(bu 2
Basic prompt configuration
.IP \(bu 2
Test scaffolding
.IP \(bu 2
Simple app.py without extra features
.SS Full Agent
The full agent type includes everything in basic, plus:
.IP \(bu 2
Debug webhook endpoints (/debug, /post_prompt)
.IP \(bu 2
Pretty-printed console output for call events
.IP \(bu 2
Web UI for browser-based testing
.IP \(bu 2
Basic authentication for endpoints
.IP \(bu 2
Post-prompt summary configuration
.IP \(bu 2
Static file serving
.SH ENVIRONMENT
The following environment variables affect credential defaults:
.TP
.B SIGNALWIRE_SPACE_NAME
SignalWire space name. If set, used as default in interactive mode.
.TP
.B SIGNALWIRE_PROJECT_ID
SignalWire project ID. If set, used as default in interactive mode.
.TP
.B SIGNALWIRE_API_TOKEN
SignalWire API token. If set, used as default in interactive mode.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Project created successfully.
.TP
.B 1
An error occurred. Check stderr for details.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR swaig-test (1),
.BR sw-search (1),
.BR pytest (1)
.PP
SignalWire AI Agents SDK documentation:
.I https://github.com/signalwire/signalwire-agents
.SH AUTHORS
SignalWire Team <info@signalwire.com>
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2025 SignalWire. Licensed under the MIT License.
